## Syllabus

### **cs6501: Security and Privacy of Machine Learning**
University of Virginia, Spring 2018

**Meetings:** Fridays, 9:30AM - noon, Rice Hall 032

**Course Objective.** This seminar will focus on understanding the
  risks adversaries pose to machine learning systems, and how to
  design more robust machine learning systems to mitigate those risks.

**Expected Background:** Previous background in machine learning and
security is beneficial, but not required so long as you are willing
and able to learn some foundational materials on your own. Most
students in the seminar should have either strong background in
machine learning, or strong background in security and privacy, but it
is not expected that most students have extensive background in both
areas. The seminar is open to ambitious undergraduate students (with
instructor permission), and to graduate students interested in
research in adversarial machine learning, privacy-preserving machine
learning, fairness and transparency in machine learning, and other
related topics.

**Coordinator:** [David Evans](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/evans)
  (evans@virginia.edu). My
  [office](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/evans/office) is Rice 507.

## Course Expectations

Students in the seminar are expected to:

- Lead discussions on interesting topics during the class meetings.
  For each week, there will be a team of students charged with
  preparing a topic and leading the discussion, and another team
  charged with writing a blog post about the class. Students
  responsible for posting the blog summary will be different from the
  ones charged with leading the topic discussion, but should work
  closely with the leaders on the posted write-up.

- Particpate actively in class meetings.  This means being prepared to
  contribute by doing the assigned preparation (which will typically
  involve reading a few research papers, but may involve other things
  also) and thinking about the materials deeply to be able to
  contribute well to discussions.

- Contribute fully to a team that develops a course-long project which
  could either be a research project or a systematization of knowledge
  project. We will discuss this more in an early class, and form teams
  based on interests.

## Communications

**Course Website:**
  [_https://secml.github.io/_](https://secml.github.io/).  All
  course materials will be posted on the course website, and students
  will be expected to provide materials to add to this site. 

**Slack:**
  [_https://secprivml.slack.com_](https://secprivml.slack.com).  We
  will use a slack group for class communications.  You can join using
  any `@virginia.edu` email address.  You can also create slack
  channels for your team communications.

## Honor and Responsibility

We believe strongly in the value of a _community of trust_, and expect
all of the students in this class to contribute to strenghtening and
enhancing that community.  The course will be better for everyone if
everyone can assume everyone else is trustworthy. The course staff
starts with the assumption that all students at the university deserve
to be trusted.

In this course, we will be learning about and exploring some
vulnerabilities that could be used to compromise deployed systems.
**You are trusted to behave responsibility and ethically.** You may
not attack any system without permission of its owners, and may not
use anything you learn in this class for evil.  If you have any doubts
about whether or not something you want to do is ethical and legal,
you should check with the course instructor before proceeding.

## Area Requirements

**Note for CS Graduate Students.** This course is mislisted in SIS
(indeed, it is a "bug" in the setup of SIS that cannot be overcome
that requires all grad courses to be assigned areas) as counting for
the "Software Systems" and "Theory" area requirements.  As per the
actual rules in the Graduate Handbook, a cs6501 seminar course does
not a priori count for any particular areas.  It may be possible to
count it for any area, but it would be up to you to make the case to
your committee that it should count for a given area. In most cases,
this will depend a lot on what you individually do in the class - for
example, you could select presentation topics and a topic for you
project that would make a strong case for counting it for the "Theory"
area, but someone else who does a systems-focused project would be
able to count it for a different area. I can help provide guidance on
this, but it is ultimately up to your committee to decide if a course
counts for a particular area requirement.





